back-up-firestore-to-storage/README.md, before:

# Back up Firestore to Storage

**Author**: Hideki TSURUOKA (**[https://github.com/HTsuruo](https://github.com/HTsuruo)**)

**Description**: Exports Firestore documents to Cloud Storage at any scheduled time.

**Details**: By using this extension, export selected Firestore documents to Cloud Storage at any scheduled time. It depends on Google API's [exportDocuments](https://cloud.google.com/firestore/docs/reference/rest/v1/projects.databases/exportDocuments).

This extension streamlines the creation of content outlined in the Schedule data exports section of [the official Firebase documentation](https://firebase.google.com/docs/firestore/solutions/schedule-export).It eliminates the need to manually create service accounts or configure Cloud Functions. Just install the extension, and with a single click, you're all set up.

> Caution: Exporting data from Cloud Firestore will incur one read operation per document exported. However, these reads will not appear in the usage section of the console. Make sure you understand this before setting up recurring exports to avoid an unexpected bill.

The features of this extension are as follows:

- Exports documents of specified Firestore collection ID(s) at any scheduled time
- Allows developers to set schedule the time to export
  - Supports both `Unix Crontab` and `App Engine syntax`
    - [unix-cron syntax](https://cloud.google.com/scheduler/docs/configuring/cron-job-schedules) (for example, '5 11 ** *')
    - [App Engine syntax](https://cloud.google.com/appengine/docs/standard/scheduling-jobs-with-cron-yaml#defining_the_cron_job_schedule) (for example, 'every 5 minutes')

## Additional setup

If you want to back up to a bucket other than `[project-id].appspot.com`, you need to create the bucket before using this extension. It is **recommended** that creating the bucket with `Coldline` or `Archive` storage class, due to backup purposes.

For more information about Storage class, please refer to:
[Available storage classes](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/storage-classes#classes)

## Billing

This extension uses other Firebase or Google Cloud Platform services which may have associated charges:

- Cloud Functions
- Cloud Firestore
- Cloud Storage

When you use Firebase Extensions, you're only charged for the underlying resources that you use. A paid-tier billing plan is only required if the extension uses a service that requires a paid-tier plan, for example calling to a Google Cloud Platform API or making outbound network requests to non-Google services. All Firebase services offer a free tier of usage. [Learn more about Firebase billing.](https://firebase.google.com/pricing)

**Configuration Parameters:**

- Cloud Storage bucket: If not set, `[project-id].appspot.com` is set as the default. If set, the bucket must exist before before using this extension.

- Cloud Storage prefix path (not including heading slash, filename)

- Firestore collection ids (separated by ','): - If not set, all collections will be backed up.

- The frequency at which you want to execute the backup.: This field can accept strings that use either syntax: - unix-cron syntax (for example, '5 11 ** *') - App Engine syntax (for example, 'every 5 minutes')

- The time zone in which the schedule will run (Defaults to UTC).: Refer to the [standardardized time zone abbreviations](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_time_zone_abbreviations).

- Cloud Functions location: Where do you want to deploy the functions created for this extension? For help selecting a location, refer to the [location selection guide](https://firebase.google.com/docs/functions/locations).

**Cloud Functions:**

- **backupTransaction:** Schedule triggered function that executes backup Firestore to Cloud Storage

**APIs Used**:

- firestore.googleapis.com (Reason: Exports Firestore documents in a restorable format)

**Access Required**:

This extension will operate with the following project IAM roles:

- datastore.importExportAdmin (Reason: Allows the extension to export Firestore documents data.)

- storage.objectAdmin (Reason: Allows the extension to upload exported Firestore documents data to Cloud Storage.)

Commit message:

Add TIMESTAMP_FORMAT optional parameter

back-up-firestore-to-storage/README.md, after:

# Back up Firestore to Storage

**Author**: Hideki TSURUOKA (**[https://github.com/HTsuruo](https://github.com/HTsuruo)**)

**Description**: Exports Firestore documents to Cloud Storage at any scheduled time.

**Details**: By using this extension, export selected Firestore documents to Cloud Storage at any scheduled time. It depends on Google API's [exportDocuments](https://cloud.google.com/firestore/docs/reference/rest/v1/projects.databases/exportDocuments).

This extension streamlines the creation of content outlined in the Schedule data exports section of [the official Firebase documentation](https://firebase.google.com/docs/firestore/solutions/schedule-export).It eliminates the need to manually create service accounts or configure Cloud Functions. Just install the extension, and with a single click, you're all set up.

> Caution: Exporting data from Cloud Firestore will incur one read operation per document exported. However, these reads will not appear in the usage section of the console. Make sure you understand this before setting up recurring exports to avoid an unexpected bill.

The features of this extension are as follows:

- Exports documents of specified Firestore collection ID(s) at any scheduled time
- Allows developers to set schedule the time to export
  - Supports both `Unix Crontab` and `App Engine syntax`
    - [unix-cron syntax](https://cloud.google.com/scheduler/docs/configuring/cron-job-schedules) (for example, '5 11 ** *')
    - [App Engine syntax](https://cloud.google.com/appengine/docs/standard/scheduling-jobs-with-cron-yaml#defining_the_cron_job_schedule) (for example, 'every 5 minutes')

## Additional setup

If you want to back up to a bucket other than `[project-id].appspot.com`, you need to create the bucket before using this extension. It is **recommended** that creating the bucket with `Coldline` or `Archive` storage class, due to backup purposes.

For more information about Storage class, please refer to:
[Available storage classes](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/storage-classes#classes)

## Billing

This extension uses other Firebase or Google Cloud Platform services which may have associated charges:

- Cloud Functions
- Cloud Firestore
- Cloud Storage

When you use Firebase Extensions, you're only charged for the underlying resources that you use. A paid-tier billing plan is only required if the extension uses a service that requires a paid-tier plan, for example calling to a Google Cloud Platform API or making outbound network requests to non-Google services. All Firebase services offer a free tier of usage. [Learn more about Firebase billing.](https://firebase.google.com/pricing)

**Configuration Parameters:**

- Cloud Storage bucket: If not set, `[project-id].appspot.com` is set as the default. If set, the bucket must exist before before using this extension.

- Cloud Storage prefix path (not including heading slash, filename)

- Firestore collection ids (separated by ','): - If not set, all collections will be backed up.

- The frequency at which you want to execute the backup.: This field can accept strings that use either syntax: - unix-cron syntax (for example, '5 11 ** *') - App Engine syntax (for example, 'every 5 minutes')

- The timestamp format for object to export.: If not set, `YYYY-MM-DDTHH:mm:ss_SSS` is set as the default. If set, keep to be unique, taking into account the SCHEDULE parameter.

- The time zone in which the schedule will run (Defaults to UTC).: Refer to the [standardardized time zone abbreviations](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_time_zone_abbreviations).

- Cloud Functions location: Where do you want to deploy the functions created for this extension? For help selecting a location, refer to the [location selection guide](https://firebase.google.com/docs/functions/locations).

**Cloud Functions:**

- **backupTransaction:** Schedule triggered function that executes backup Firestore to Cloud Storage

**APIs Used**:

- firestore.googleapis.com (Reason: Exports Firestore documents in a restorable format)

**Access Required**:

This extension will operate with the following project IAM roles:

- datastore.importExportAdmin (Reason: Allows the extension to export Firestore documents data.)

- storage.objectAdmin (Reason: Allows the extension to upload exported Firestore documents data to Cloud Storage.)
